docs: rfc: CI/CD setup R&D (#640)
epiphany-platform/CommonDataLayer: docs/rfc/NAF-CI_CD_setup_rnd.md

Reviewer        : CommonDataLayer
Created         : 2021-07-13
Last updated    : 2021-07-19
Version         : 1.0.0
```

## Glossary:
- PS - performance stack - the part of the ci that is responsible for hosting the performance part of the tests
- PT - performance test - tests related to measurements of release or build which was already tested against compliance with specification and developer tests
- DT - developer test - bulk of tests related to code/specification/project compliance (acceptance tests). Triggered  every commit to tests its viability, also ran on all types of releases. Currently, functionality is provided by GitHub actions.
- Reverse Proxy - both load balancing and security element in network communication, usually http - related. In our case, its nginx. Its main job is to provide TLS wrapping on the http layer (resulting in https TLSv1.3). While load balancing is not currently a problem. it is a security concern to allow users to authenticate over plain text, and thus component like this have to be introduced to help alleviate this problem.

## What we want to accomplish by introducing the CI/CD?
a.k.a.  What's the situation, and what are we trying to solve?

> Currently, all our tests are being ran on the GitHub public cloud. We do have, as a OSS project, a lot of flexibility in this matter and GitHub provides for us almost infinite resources to help with our development. However, being the generic system, we are using VM's and environments that we do not control fully. We cannot guarantee that tests that we want to do will run on the same environment and thus tests are comparable with each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, all our tests are being run on the GitHub public cloud. We do have, as an OSS project, a lot of flexibility in this matter, and GitHub provides us almost infinite resources to help with our development. However, being the generic system, we are using VM's and environments that we do not control fully. We cannot guarantee that tests that we want to do will run in the same environment and thus tests are not comparable with each other.
```

Reviewer: Besides that, looks good to me

## Scope:
This document only describes the changes and tooling related to the Performance-bound part of the CI. As described in the paragraph above, CI will be split it two dedicated parts. All the work related to R&D was around planning the CI with focus on performance part, taking only automated one into overall consideration. Reasoning behind it is that automated CI is already working to some degree and only needs quality of life improvements or minor expansions.

Measuring itself is currently free-floating problem that does not have to be immediately solved. To be specific, it's the problem of amount of work and path we will take given setup that we like, but it does not have to, at this point of time, to dictate setup itself.

### Solution:

> Due to us being partially lazy and partially having limited resources for our disposal, we decided that it would be the best idea to follow a hybrid solution for now. That means that we will keep GitHub actions for whatever we are doing right now, i.e. code quality and compliance testing, that can be run multiple times in parallel, and thus unlimited resources GitHub provides would be the best option for it. For performance testing, we will use the playground server stack which is configured, stable and persistent across tests. That also means that each test will be started in the environment as similar to each other as possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We decided that it would be the best idea to follow a hybrid solution for now. That means that we will keep GitHub actions for whatever we are doing right now, i.e. code quality and compliance testing, that can be run multiple times in parallel, and thus unlimited resources GitHub provides would be the best option for it. For performance testing, we will use the playground server stack which is configured, stable and persistent across tests. That also means that each test will be started in the environment as similar to each other as possible.
```
This has nothing to do with laziness or limited resources(in a reasonable way). Github actions have some benefits that private hosted CI does not. E.g. CI status and run details are available publicly, any contributor can run tests on CI, even on their own fork - you don't need access to the internal environment.

Author: yeah i wrote that because i was lazy

> In addition, we will be able to perform server tuning and advise for best HW and SW configuration for CDL to run on.

Reviewer 2: What does `HW`, `SW` stands for?

Reviewer: Hard Ware and Soft Ware I presume?

```
Title           : CI/CD setup - R&D
Author(s)       : Mateusz 'esavier' Matejuk
Team            : CommonDataLayer
Reviewer        : CommonDataLayer
Created         : 2021-07-13

> Last updated    : 2021-07-19

Reviewer 2: I guess it's should be updated again

### Solutions:

Due to us being partially lazy and partially having limited resources for our disposal, we decided that it would be the best idea to follow hybrid solution for now. That means that we will keep github actions for whatever we are doing right now, i.e. code quality and compliance testing, that can be run multiple times in parallel, and thus unlimited resources github provides would be the best option for it. For performance testing we will use the playground server stack which is configured, stable and persistant across tests. That also means that each test will be started in the environment as similar to each other as possible.

In addition we will be able to perform server tuning and advise for beest HW and SW configuration for CDL to run on.

## Tooling:

in terms of availability and usability, following tools were tested:
- Jenkins
- Buildbot
- Lamianr
- GoCD

#### Jenkins

> It is very versatile tool that allows for adjustments and modifications. Community is quite active and thre is a lot of plugins for different systems and usecases. Hoewver in our case there were problems with proper configuration of the service itself. Numerous issues with HTTPS reverse proxy (among others) was noticed and prevented us from, for example, providing or changing configuration and communicating with the agents. Despite that the setup can be adjusted to take that into account, for example by providing proper vpn connections, switching to plain http and locking the machine itself from outside world. Anoher problem is that java errors are not easy to understand nor to fix.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is very versatile tool that allows for adjustments and modifications. Community is quite active and there is a lot of plugins for different systems and usecases. Hoewver in our case there were problems with proper configuration of the service itself. Numerous issues with HTTPS reverse proxy (among others) was noticed and prevented us from, for example, providing or changing configuration and communicating with the agents. Despite that the setup can be adjusted to take that into account, for example by providing proper vpn connections, switching to plain http and locking the machine itself from outside world. Anoher problem is that java errors are not easy to understand nor to fix.
```
